HTML

1. What is HTML?
HTML is the foundation of web development. It stands for HyperText Markup Language. It is used to structure content on a webpage.
Technically, an HTML element is the collection of start tag, its attributes, an end tag and everything in between.
On the other hand an HTML tag (either opening or closing) is used to mark the start or end of an element.

2. What are the 2 main components of an HTML document? What is the purpose of each?
The two main parts of an HTML document are the head and the body.
Each section contains specific information.
The head section contains information that is useful to the Web browser and search engines but is not visible to the reader. 
The body section contains the information that you want the visitor to see. such as tags and elements.


3. Can you name 2 differences between classes and ids?
First: The difference between an ID and a class is that an ID can be used to identify one element, whereas a class can be used to identify more than one.
second: Each page can have only one element with that ID, You can use multiple classes on the same element.

4. What is “semantic HTML”?
“Semantic HTML” refers to the idea that all your HTML markup should convey the underlying meaning of your content—not its appearance. 
Instead of using "div" tag elements everywhere, it is better to use "header, nav, h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, nav,footer" elements. 

5. Can you tell the difference between internal and external links?
External = links that point to a separate domain
Internal = links that point to content within the same domain

6. Can you name one use case for the <iframe /> tag?
 <iframe> elements are designed to allow you to embed other web documents into the current document. 

7. What is the DOM?
A Web page is a document. This document can be either displayed in the browser window or as the HTML source. 
But it is the same document in both cases. The Document Object Model (DOM) represents that same document so it can be manipulated.
 The DOM is an object-oriented representation of the web page, which can be modified with a scripting language such as JavaScript.


CSS  



1. What is CSS?
CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is a language for specifying how documents are presented to users — how they are styled, laid out, etc.

2. Name and explain the 3 different ways of injecting CSS into a HTML document.
CSS can be added to HTML documents in 3 ways:
Inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML elements
Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section
External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file


3. What is the meaning of the C (cascading) in CSS?
The first C in CSS stands for Cascading and it's crucial to learning how to use CSS correctly. 
Essentially, it means that it matters (1) in which order and (2) how specific you write CSS rules.such as:
CSS rules always prioritize from left-to-right, then from top-to-bottom.
 inheritance has the lowest priority among styling methods.
 IDs have higher priority than classes and tags.
 !important keyword, it is used to override ordering.In other words, it wields incredible powers.


4. Explain the “box model”.
All HTML elements can be considered as boxes. In CSS, the term "box model" is used when talking about design and layout.
The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element. 
It consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the actual content. 

Explanation of the different parts:
Content - The content of the box, where text and images appear
Padding - Clears an area around the content. The padding is transparent
Border - A border that goes around the padding and content
Margin - Clears an area outside the border. The margin is transparent

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rIO5326FgPE

5. What is your favourite CSS framework and why?

6. Give 2 reasons why you would use a CSS framework over custom CSS.

7. What is flexbox?

8. How do CSS variables work?

9. What are pseudo-classes? Give 2 examples.

10. How can you make a webpage “responsive”?


